## Wed 29 May 2024

### the problem

* I think java is the wrong way to go for this project its so clunky and frustrating to look back on

* I feel that the main 2 contenders for a backend is something nodejs based or go based
* from the little research I have done go is trickier to work with but is faster
  * I dont really care about speed so much, I'd like a nice dev experience.
  * id like the environment to get in the way as little as possible

### The path forward

* **affirmations**
    * **Collaboration**
      * the system must have a simple dev experience
        * portability and ease of deployment
      * the system should be designed in such a way that each contributer has a defined task which interferes with other's work as little as possible
      * each commit that isn't fixing some wierd github issue should have a short and informative information about what the contribution does
      * sources used should be put in a format easily added to a citation manager like zotero
        * a link or isbn
      * each collaborator should setup a github education account to get access to github copilot for free
      * 
    * **Architecture**
      * The system should be easily deployed on any given machine
        * docker/kubernetes
      * the system might be able to scale autonomously
      * the system should have dev and production branches
      * The system should have robust logging
      * the system should utilize functional programming whenever possible
    * **Features**
      * users must be able to login with password or using a gmail, github, or spotify account
      * the system should work with more than just spotify
        * apple music, yt music, tidal...
      * the system might work with multiple different kinds of media
        * youtube, podcasts, movies, books
      * the system should have a way of manually entering a piece of media that has been experienced
      * the system should support 100 + concurrent users
    * **Testing**
      * the system must have automated test cases to support a reasonable amount of users
      * the system should  have multiple test cases for any exposed function
      * 
    * **Documentation**
      * if a functions purpose is not clear a comment must be included which explains it's inputs and outputs
      * all group members should be responsible for vetting and letting each other know where documentation is lacking
      * 
    * **Implementation**
      * the code must implement typing in some way
      * the system might benefit from minimal boilerplate
      * the system must use abstraction sparingly and only where nescicary
      * the system should comprehensive have tests
      * the system should outsource authentication as much as possible
      * the system should have a well designed database schema


* **questions**
  * should the database where user information is stored be different from the database where user data is stored be different?

* **Backend Language and Frameworks**
  * **GO**
    * the more I read the less I want to deal with it
    * the idea of moving away from java is to improve the dev experience

  * **NodeJS**
    * **Frameworks**
      * **NestJS**
        * seems pretty similar to spring which is both good and bad
          * boilerplate
          * schema? of controllers, providers, middleware, etc.
          * people say its like writing java (mmmmmmmm, no thanks)
      * **TypeORM**
        *
      * **FoalTS**
        * Less boilerplate, documentation is a bit more confusing but the code is easier to read, imo
        * "Controllers are the front door of your application. They intercept all incoming requests and return the responses to the client."
        * Not exactly what I think im looking for
      * **Adonis**
        * javascript first framework, i don't really feel like figuring out how to cram ts down its throat
        * looks really similar to nest js, too much boilerplate for me
      * **Prisma**
        * simple and no nonsense, seeming
        * easy to create custom db objects, might be ideal for dealing with our db and then the musicbrainz db
        *
    * **Compiling ts to js**
      * just writing vanilla typescript and running it under node
        * no boilerplate or frameworks to become familiar with
        * some framework like express
      * 
* **Load balancing**
  * if we really want to support many users a load balancer would be needed
    * nest has support for it, i don't care
    * node actually has support for it
  * load balancing with mongodb seems easier than with mysql
    * after webware, i have really fallen for mongo, it's so easy to work with

* **architecture**
  * ci/cd
    * would be great for getting app in testers hands
  * microservice philosiphy might apply well here
    * web api
    * musicbrainz
    * data aquisition
  * docker

* **auth**
  * use a 3rd party auth provider like auth0 from okta
    * oauth2 support, login with a profile
  * there is no need to be any kind of identity provider
    * an identity provider is essentially a single sign on
  * **keycloak**
    * cannot use nosql databases like mongo
    * self hosted
    * 
  * **GLUU**
    * requires relational database
    * powerfull, maybe even a little more than what this project requires
    *
  * **Firebase**

    * paid service
  * **Supabase**
    * supposedly an open source alternative to 
    * easy to get up and running using docker
    * uses a postgresql database
    * has auth functionality built in
    * has buckets (could be used for local storage of data)
* **the front runners**
  * Prisma
    * minimal framework, like express


## Sources

Auth0. n.d. “Introduction to Identity and Access Management (IAM).” Auth0 Docs. Accessed May 29, 2024. <https://auth0.com/docs/>.
“Documentation | NestJS - A Progressive Node.Js Framework.” n.d. Documentation | NestJS - A Progressive Node.Js Framework. Accessed May 29, 2024. <https://docs.nestjs.com>.

hyderox. 2023. “What NodeJS Framework Do You Use in Production?” Reddit Post. R/Node. <www.reddit.com/r/node/comments/13hf4om/what_nodejs_framework_do_you_use_in_production/>.

“Introduction | FoalTS.” n.d. Accessed May 29, 2024. <https://foalts.org/docs/>.

Kathiriya, Akash. 2019. “An Overview of MongoDB and Load Balancing.” Severalnines (blog). October 22, 2019. <https://severalnines.com/blog/overview-mongodb-and-load-balancing/>.

“Koa - next Generation Web Framework for Node.Js.” n.d. Accessed May 29, 2024. <https://koajs.com/>.

“Node.Js — Node.Js with TypeScript.” n.d. Accessed May 29, 2024. <https://nodejs.org/en/learn/getting-started/nodejs-with-typescript>.

“Scaling Node.Js Applications.” 2017. freeCodeCamp.Org. July 14, 2017. <https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/scaling-node-js-applications-8492bd8afadc/>.

“Tutorial: Developing a RESTful API with Go and Gin - The Go Programming Language.” n.d. Accessed May 29, 2024. <https://go.dev/doc/tutorial/web-service-gin>.

“What Are Microservices? | AWS.” n.d. Amazon Web Services, Inc. Accessed May 29, 2024. <https://aws.amazon.com/microservices/>.
