# Dev Log

## 11 Jun 24

## Features 

* **Subabase/backend**
  * users may sign up with email
  * endpoints for logging data
  * endpoints for setting up spotify authorization

* **Database**
  * stores user profile
  * tracks listened by users

* **Frontend** 
  * users can...
    * login
    * signup
    * authorize spotify
    * view data gathered on their profile

* **Data aquisition** 
  * starts and gathers users from db
  * periodically checks for new users and logs any associated data
  * adjustable delay for most pieces

* **musicbrainz** 
  * in progress
    * need to setup docker container for all services
    * that will allow for isrc - mbid - album art for any given track that musicbrainz has art for
    * gets around spotify's use restrictions

## The role of AI

* **Copilot**
  * co-pilot was used extensively for planning, it is not great at understanding ideas and turning them into code
  * once there is a moderate amount of code 50-100 lines the auto completion becomes very accurite
  * using chat is very slow, often i would ask it something and work on other stuff while I waited on it
  * often misnamed things and made assumptions especially working with external data, like from the spotify api
  * the chat is hard to re focus 
    * i was struggling to figure out how basic components worked in angular and it fooled me into adding a router, a mistake, I dont think we strictly need one
    * now theres more work to-do on the frontend in removing it or adding an authorized route component

* **ChatGPT**
  * now that I have co-pilot I have not used it as much
  * i used it to help my write a query on the musicbrainz database, it took some tries, I was using 3.5

## Thoughts

I think that going with this new way of doing things, outsourcing auth and user management was the right way to go. I grew to hate spring and its colossally confusing boilerplate.

I heard in a video you struggle to get your first abstract factory pattern class working and realize it could have just been a function. I completely agree. OOP is good, but its also BAD.

On the data acquisition side of things i used some classes for holding data, and for creating a reusable timer. I brought it together by creating an object with a track data, spotify creds, timer, and spotify player classes. This seems to work well. It also hopefully, will be easy to extend.